---
layout: post
title: Palladio Review
---

	Palladio is a tool which allows its users to visualize complex historical data through visuals of maps and various forms of graphs. I found the site to be fairly easy to pick up. When I came back to play with it some more, I used a sample set of data and was able to use tutorials and FAQs on the site to figure out how everything worked. I found it really useful that, when mapping, I could make connections between the dots (in this case, birthplace and place of death) and then create another layer that would make all of the birthplace points and certain color in order to make them standout. This made reading the graph a lot easier and could be used in other projects in order to color-code points that are important.
	The graphs were really useful for finding connections amongst a big set of data. For example, I was able to visualize the birthplace cities and the names attached to them, which showed that a lot of people were born in Paris. The graphs could be a little hard to view at times, especially if the data gets less connected and more separated, but I think that works as a sort of visualization of those points of data simply not correlating much. This graph is most useful for finding groups and connections, and I think it does a good job doing that.
	When exploring with the sample set of data, I also discovered a really interesting function called the gallery. While this function isn’t useful for visualzing connections between data, it was useful for providing a visual for the data in the original dataset. Each person in the data set had their name displayed, along with two points of data. You could put birthplace and place of death, birthdate and date of death, or any combination that would be most useful for that project. I also really liked that you can upload pictures into the dataset (using links) which was able to attach a picture to some of the people listed. I also really liked that there was an option to attach a link that would open when clicking on each person. Although there weren’t any links included with this dataset (aside from the pictures), you could use it to attach further readings (such as a wikipedia article on that person or some sort of website that gives more information on them).
	The only issues I had were some crashing that would happen when I tried to replicate the Lab we did in-class. I had some issues when setting up the data where when I tried to add in the coordinates the website crashed on me. I think it’s possible this may be an error on my end, as I could have been doing something wrong or their could be an issue with my laptop or my browser. Mostly, I think if I wanted to use this tool in the future, creating my own dataset by hand might help me to better grasp how it needs to be implemented before it can be used in the visuals. It didn’t seem very hard, I just think it needs a bit of careful review to make sure everything is right both within the dataset and with how it’s been uploaded.
	Overall, I think this tool is very successful. I was surprised by how user-friendly it was and I really appreciate the tutorials on the website, as they were very clear and had visuals to help guide me when I needed help. I could maybe see myself using this in the future or in my final project. I began to think about ways I could map out something involving data associated with video games, such as: release dates, locations of game companies, profits, names of directors of video games and their gender, or even things like genre or review scores. I don’t know if the map would be particularly useful, but I think the graph would. I’d also be really excited to make the gallery look nice, honestly. I could add cover art and a link to each game’s website, which are the kinds of little details I really enjoy adding in online projects. I’d recommend this tool to anyone willing to play around with it, as you can get a really satisfying and good-looking final outcome if you’re patient.
