---
layout: post
title: Webrecorder Review
---

	Webrecorder is an archiving tool that can be used to archive websites on the Internet, so you can save an older version of that webpage for viewing later on. Making an account is free and allows you to create collections of pages, so you could have separate collections for different websites, for example. The content that is archived depends on how thorough you are on that website. For example, when I archived Reddit’s popular page, only whatever shows up on the excerpt that makes it to the popular page is archived. So, if a text post cuts off, in the archived version you wouldn’t be able to access the full text unless you had clicked on it when you archived that page. Personalized ads are also not saved. The website also features an “autopilot” feature that will enable an auto-scrolling function for more hands-free archiving. This made archiving Reddit really easy, as I simply enabled the autoscroll feature until it stopped and got a lot of the previews for the popular pages of that day.
	
	There’s also the Webrecorder Player, which can be used to view collections made on the website when they’re downloaded as WARCs. This comes with some downsides, however, most notably I found that it didn’t archive videos that I was able to view when I archived them on the website. I think the biggest advantage to the Webrecorder Player is that it doesn’t require internet usage, which wasn’t too important for me since I had easy Internet access.
	
	Overall, I really enjoyed Webrecorder. It was really easy to use and understand, and I even found myself really having a lot of fun archiving websites I regularly use. I could see it being interesting to keep a daily record of a favorite website to see how things change (such as what articles are being featured). I could also imagine plenty of academic uses for it, especially when tracking things over a period of time, with the biggest downside being that Webrecorder requires manual effort, unlike the automated scripts that were used in the article we read about in class.
	
	Web archiving is an incredibly important topic in a day and age where more and more of our information is digital. With a physical book, you may have to worry about the book getting physically damaged, but with web pages, information and entire websites can disappear overnight with the click of a button. I mostly find myself concerned when censorship comes into play, such as recent efforts by China (and Pro-China companies) to suppress information about the protests in Hong Kong. There’s also the use of archiving in order to preserve tweets or posts by influential figures who may try to delete an offending post so they can keep a positive image. With archiving, these statements can’t be as easily denied and covered up. And, unlike a screenshot, an archived website can’t be faked, making it a more valid way of preserving things online. As we go into the future, I think more resources should be put into finding ways to archive the web, since we would otherwise risk losing massive amounts of important content that future generations may want to explore.
