---
layout: post
title: Final Project Reflection
---

Reflecting On My Final Project
	I’d like to begin by speaking on the process through which this project came to be. I’m incredibly interested in video games from many perspectives; as art, primarily, but also through how people interact with them socially and what games themselves can say about the communities that consume them. My particular niche is the visual novel (henceforth referred to as “VN”). As an English major, I find that visual novels integrate rather easily into literature due to their status as already being “novels.” However, there’s a notably different market between what could be considered popular, or even ‘canon,’ within the VN community as opposed to the community of English literature. For this project, I used the gaming storefront Steam as my basis for finding the popular VNs of today, specifically by utilizing the website steam250.com for a more accurate list of the top 50 rated VNs. I should note, however, that Steam is a bit of a latecomer in the VN market. Previously, VNs were often sold and downloaded via individual websites, such as mangagamer.com or jastusa.com. The VN market is still incredibly niche, primarily due to its smaller audience and the racy content many of these games contain. Even now, Steam only hold a small portion of a rather wide catalog of VNs available, and many of them must be censored for their release on steam. For example, the Nekopara series, one of the most popular VNs on Steam, is marketed as a “family friendly” version. The sex scenes contained within the original game must be bought off of a seperate website and then patched into the game. Some games have had to remove excessive violence, as well. The censorship of this content within VNs is somewhat ironic when you consider the fact that Steam hosts a slew of games in which you may perhaps play as a soldier and slaughter hundreds without consideration, but I digress. 
	All this is to just give some context to the current state of the VN community, as well as to connect with some of the data I collected. Most of the data I collected was pretty standard: names, release years, developers, publishers, prices, and so on. The only categories based on the individual content of the game were: genre, protagonist gender, and not safe for work (abbreviated as NSFW; this refers to sexual content primarily). I also considered accounting for LGBT content, but unfortunately this proved to be a little difficult. For some games, it can be contested as to whether or not the game is LGBT. Many VNs are made in Japan, which often tends to run more conservative when LGBT issues are concerned. So you may have a VN which has two female characters that are very close and act romantic towards each other, but if the novel never makes their sexuality official or has them refer to each other as “girlfriend,” it can still be argued that they are just friends. I think if I wanted to explore LGBT content in the future I would look at it through a category of the top 50 video games on Steam with the “LGBT content” tag to give more options. 
	For the content categories I chose, genre ended up coming in 7 forms: Casual, Drama, Dating Sim, Adventure, RPG, Puzzle, and Simulation. Casual games, known within the VN community as “kinetic novels,” are VNs that contain no player choice or gameplay. Drama games are VNs that contain player choice, often done through a series of options a player is given in order to influence the plot of the story. Dating Sims are a subcategory of the Drama genre. Although they also contain player choice that influence the plot, the plot involved is a romance in which the player attempts to woo one or more characters through their choices. Adventure games are VNs with long sections of gameplay, such as games like Ace Attorney or Danganronpa, which both contain mystery solving and courtroom drama sections of gameplay where the player must put together “whodunnit.” RPGs are also gameplay focused, but the gameplay of an RPG is based around battles and leveling characters in order to defeat bosses. The Puzzle genre, which only applied to one game in the whole list, are games which exclusively focus on puzzles; in this case, it came in the form of a match-three game. Simulation games are a little harder to define. I would best describe them as games which base their gameplay around one specific element. For VA-11 HALL-A, the gameplay is based around being a bartender and for Long Live the Queen the gameplay is based around taking on the role of a princess.
	Protagonist gender was defined into 4 categories: Male, Female, Other, and Player Based. Male and Female are defined just as it says. It’s worth noting that I would have included a Non-Binary category, but no games met this criteria. Other is for games that often contain multiple POVs of characters or have a player character with no defined gender. Player Based is for games in which the player can choose what gender they wish to play as. I was interested in this as the video game industry in general often skews male; though this has been changing lately with games like Overwatch that contain multiple female characters. Yet, the VN industry lags far behind as far as female representation is concerned. There’s not nearly as many female protagonists, and when they are included, it’s often in the Dating Sim genre; either for games where a female protagonist goes after a group of male characters or within the “yuri” genre, signifying female/female relationships. For NSFW game, I categorized them as being NSFW even if the NSFW content must be patched in through a 3rd party website. I looked at NSFW content for similar reasons to my focus on protagonist gender. Although not the majority, an overwhelming amount of VNs contain explicit sex. And although I am not against sexuality, I do find it concerning that VNs often deliniate female characters to that of sex objects, as it creates an incredibly archiac view of female characters as only being worth how sexually appealing they are.
	Now, for my results. By plugging my data into Palladio, I was able to get some visualizations of the trends the appeared within my data. One of the most surprising things for me was the fact that there was no adventure games in the top 50 with female protagonists, as well as the fact that there was no female led games released in 2018 in the top 50. As a female gamer who loves VNs, it disappoints me just how behind the VN genre is in regards to acknowledging its female audience. I think if the VN genre can successfully break away from its aversion to female leads, not only will it gain more customers, but it may be able to move its way into the mainstream, as well. I was also able to find that there was a spike in both dating sims and NSFW content in the year 2018. This isn’t shocking, as this was the same year that steam lifted many of its regulations against NSFW content. Whereas previously Steam had avoided games that were based around pornographic material, in 2018 they began to allow it more liberally. I was also able to use the graph function of Palladio to determine what was the most prevalent option within each category. This ended up amounting to a game that would be a 2-10 hour SFW Japanese Casual/Dating Sim VN developed by NEKO WORKs and published by Sekai Project featuring a male protagonist and sold for $9.99. This is largely due to the fact that games from the Nekopara series has 5 games in the top 50 list and contain most of these features. Nekopara is a casual VN that’s short, cheap, and overwhelmingly cute. The biggest difference would be that the series is also NSFW, a feature that isn’t dominate in the top 50. I’m also not surprised that short, inexpensive games are dominant. These games are accessible not only from a price point, but they require less investment from those who may not be into the VN genre and would be less likely to play a game that required 10+ hours of reading. However, I don’t think these games would be considered “canonical” within the VN community. Games that are often revered as being “must reads” are usually the lengthier novels that are gonna cost a bit more. This discrepancy speaks to the fact that Steam is often marketing towards people who aren’t dedicated VN fans, or people who may only be into VNs casually. Although, with the growing interest in VNs, especially due to the sudden Western contribution to the genre, I think we could see a rise in popularity of VNs in the future.
	Overall, this project was not only fun, but ended up being incredibly educational to me as a VN fan. I discovered a lot of VNs that I now have an interest in due to the small amount of research I had to do on each entry. I’ve also provided myself with essentially a catalog of games I can sort through if I ever want to find myself a new game in the future. It’ll be interesting to see how the top 50 list changes with the next 5 or so years. I sincerely hope we see a more diverse list, but only time will tell. 
